Figures guys welcome back to the course.
OK.
So if you're still a bit confused about how to write hyper topical content Don't worry this lecture
will cover some tips and tricks that will help you out.
All right.
So let's say you have a topic that you want to write about.
You have to act fast to get something online.
So what's the best way of doing just that.
Before you jump in and just start writing something.
Try to keep a couple of ideas in mind first figure out how to make that topic clearly relevant to your
audience.
How can you add your own value to this story that's currently developing.
There needs to be a really obvious reason you're creating content about this topic.
So what are you contributing here.
If you're not contributing anything and you're just doing news jacking like we covered last lecture
then it's pretty obvious to spot.
So try to add some new insight or new feedback try to connect some helpful tip to the event or topic.
Really you just want to try to find some connection that adds value value that's not found in all the
other coverages of the topic.
If you can't do that well then I strongly suggest you pick a different topic.
Another thing to keep in mind is just in general try to avoid controversial or purely negative topics.
You can certainly try this but I general suggestion is just I just don't do it.
There are current events happening that are again related to religion politics or I don't know terrible
tragedies.
That doesn't really mix with the content strategy.
You might be able to pull it off but is the risk really worth the reward.
Probably not.
Now if you're ready to rock.
Well let's try to actually write something now.
Is there a perfect way to actually write a topical piece.
No not really.
And there's a lot of different ways that you can do this.
Making the connection between the topic and your audience's interest or needs is obviously the key thing.
That's something you never really want to lose sight of.
But if you're looking for some ideas Well here's a couple you can consider.
If the current topic is some kind of product you could say write up a full review.
Here's what it is here's everything you need to know about it.
For instance when snap chat launched back in the Fall 2014 Mashable wrote this thing called the beginner's
guide to snapshot as a regular blog posts.
They acted quickly knowing that the readers would be interested in new social media platform.
They also probably figured out pretty quickly on their own.
They also knew that their readers are probably going to be confused.
Therefore there might be a connection.
Mashable can explain it and that's that works because there are generic tech blog.
Another idea for tackling this is that you could write what we call a recap post you write hey here's
what happened.
You then share some highlights about the event or topic and then you provide that unique value.
Like we were talking about for some insight for your readers what are the big takeaways or trends that
come up at said event.
For example Austin way is a culture magazine and a blog in Austin Texas in Austin there's an event called
South by Southwest it's pretty well known and it's gigantic and because well you know Austin way is
hip.
And that event takes place in Austin.
They did some of their own coverage of the event and then they posted a post that said here's what happened
at South by Southwest teams of 17 so far.
So unlike the full review where you explain what the hell South by Southwest is and here's your guide
to understanding it.
This is more or less a recap because it's an ongoing thing.
Here's what's happening or has happened.
So you can feel like you've actually caught up.
Here's another idea let's say the topic that you're going after or something like I don't know a decision
some company made or even maybe like a law that got passed that's relevant to you.
In that case maybe you could write an opinion post here is what happened.
Here's what it means for you and the rest of my audience.
And here's why I think it's a good or bad thing.
Any time that Google changes their algorithm for instance as you know blogs always come up with a reaction
post saying why it's better or worse and what it means for marketers or site owners or whatever their
constituency is.
If you're curious what the new update means within just Google.
Why is Google penguin so terrible in those cases the inside.
They then add is usually that they give you some kind of advice on how to deal with the new changes
and adapt.
And that's pretty helpful.
The last idea I'll give you is this Let's say you're writing about something that's going to happen
and you want to write about whether it's going to do good or bad.
In that case what you could do is read a prediction post here's this thing that's going to come out.
And I think it will perform well or really poorly.
This is a Web site you can see called Box Office Mojo.
It's a Web site that tracks how much money movies make and any time a movie is about to come out.
They write up predictions for the weekend ahead.
Then after the weekend they write a recap.
If you're in let's say the tax base you know that a certain camera or a certain device or certain Kickstarter
is coming out well you can write a prediction post and that's a very interesting post.
You might say the Juice Crew is going to flop miserably and well you'd be psychic now.
Are there other ways to write topical posts.
Yes of course.
Before I actually mentioned right here reviews recaps opinions and predictions are just common ways
because you know there's always going to be interest in how something new did have the latest event
went or wanting to read people's thoughts or something that just came out.
If there's a way for you to wrap your own blog post about something on people's mind that your audience
would like go for it.
Just be sure that when you do it do it quickly before people move on to something else and get distracted
by the next shiny object.
And speaking of shiny objects and moving on it's probably that time that we did it as well.
I'll see in the next lecture.